# How to become smarter

*Disclaimer: This article is by no means generated by GenAI, nor is it revised by GenAI.*

## Read more

You got to have input to produce outputs. However, remember the golden rule in ML: “**Garbage in, garbage out.**” Keep an eye on what you’re feeding yourself. Asking yourself the question: Is this content valuable?

# Take notes

Taking notes is not just about summarizing the article (or whatever you’re reading). In fact, you probably won’t gonna revisit your notes.

The point is you are actually organizing the knowledge graph (or connecting the dots) while taking notes. This is why I personally dislike using AI to summarize what I want to read. I don’t think I am actually learning by just reading through the bullet points.

Just a quick intro for the tools I use for taking notes and organizing my thoughts: Heptabase. I tried Notion, Google Docs, and other tools before. I think what makes Heptabase stands out is the whiteboard feature. It helps me draw the connection between each card, and the notes I took won’t be just another file I won’t open again in the file-structure like system.

## Social Media’s Impact

We all know social media is a kind of distraction, but what I think the game changer of “distraction” is probably short video.

I personally been through a time when I got nothing to do and just keep scrolling on social media. I was so into Instagram Reels, YouTube Shorts, etc. (TikTok was not that popularized in Taiwan). Later, I found out it’s hard for me to read a book or even read an article. When I clicked into an article that might take me 10 minutes, I somehow just don’t want to read it.

It’s kind of similar to the reward function in RL. Our brain wants to get instant reward in just 30 seconds, and it fits our human nature perfectly: laziness. While watching short videos, we don’t need to click “skip ad” unlike a long video. What we only do is watch it for 5 seconds: if it is interesting, ok. If it’s not, next video.

After that, I talked to my friend, and her suggestion is: “You don’t need to live on the internet.” Then I remind the days when I literally have zero productivity, all I do is scaring at the screen, watching YouTube videos, checking out social media for **8 hours a day.** Then I decide I have to set a restriction for myself: I can only spend on social media for at most 1 hours per day. (thanks for iPhone’s feature) My life has become better after that.

There are some books that I recommend that is related to the impact of social media:

- **The Attention Merchants**: The Epic Scramble to Get Inside Our Heads. 

- **The Anxious Generation: How the Great Rewiring of Childhood Is Causing an Epidemic of Mental Illness**

## Treat your body better

Physical health is as important as your mental health. I personally feel good about myself most when I followed to a daily routine.

Below are some advises from my personal experience:

- **Sleep before 11pm**: I know it’s hard for most of the people, but at least try 12am

- **Go outside**: Don’t just stare at the screen all day long. Take a walk, go to the gym, or just sit in a chair looking at the sky. Sometimes you just need to change the environment.

- **Drink water**: It will help us stimulate metabolism. Also, going to the bathroom also makes you get out from the desk and take a little walk. Especially when you are not feeling well, just drink a ton of water, and you will get better.

- **Control what you eat**: Well, it actually depends on your habit though. I personally don’t think there is an “optimal” plan. I am not a guy that can eat “healthy food” for seven straight days, but I also don’t think eating too much junk food is good for your body. My only advice would be: If you really feel like you need to eat something “unhealthy” to make you feel better, then just go for it.

## Thinking

We see too much things as natural, and we don’t even think about the reason behind it. For example,  
